November newsletter draft (#1127)
writethedocs/www: newsletter-november-2019.rst

.. post:: November 04, 2019
   :tags: newsletter

#########################################
Write the Docs Newsletter – November 2019
#########################################

> `It's...<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ydyXFUmv6S4>`__ not Monty Python's Flying Circus. Sorry. It is, however, the November edition of the newsletter!

Author: Is this too niche? I'm leaning towards taking it out.

Reviewer: Yeah, I'd take it out.

> `It's... <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ydyXFUmv6S4>`__ not Monty Python's Flying Circus. Sorry. It is, however, the November edition of the newsletter!

Author: Yeah, I'm gonna take this out. It might be funny to a small group of people but is probably on balance just too weird.

Reviewer 2: well -- speaking as someone who has never really tried to get into Monty Python, I usually just go "Oh it's a Monty Python thing" and keep going. edit: in other words, I think people who won't get it may just ignore it.

Reviewer 3: Yea, I've seen some bits of monty python, but don't know this reference :) No strong feeling either way though.

Reviewer 4: I'm in favor of removing.

> The `Sydney conference </conf/australia/2019/>`__ is coming up in just a few short weeks. It'll be 14th-15th November, and there are still a handful of tickets left. So if you were on the fence, get them now!

Reviewer 4: Nitpick: got get "one" now, to the individual reader?

> Looking forward to next year, the site for `Portland 2020 </conf/portland/2019/>`__ is live, as is the `Call For Proposals </conf/portland/2020/cfp>`__. We'd love to hear all your awesome talk ideas, so get working on them! The CFP closes on 10th January, 2020.

Author: @plaindocs I'm currently planning to publish on Monday - think you'll be good by then? That PR seemed pretty close to being done when I glanced at it.

Reviewer 4: Yeah,  I reckon.

> Finally, we're changing policy for how we change policies, by introducing `Write the Docs Enhancement Proposals </blog/introducing-weps/>`__. The way we run the community has grown organically with the community itself, from seven whole years ago when it was just one conference . Our processes are only loosely defined - but that makes it harder for new people to understand the community and join the leadership. So we're trying WEPs, an idea taken from the open-source ecosystem. If you're interested, take a look at the `blog post </blog/introducing-weps/>`__, which explains it all much better.

Author: @ericholscher - can you tell me what you think of this as a summary? I'll probably try to edit it to be a little more concise tomorrow, but I'd like to check this reflects what you're trying to say

Reviewer 3: Seems reasonable. I think it could be cleaned up a little bit, I'll take a swing at it:

```suggestion
Finally, we're formalizing how we change policies, by introducing `Write the Docs Enhancement Proposals </blog/introducing-weps/>`__. The community has mostly grown organically, but there have been some growing pains as we've expanded. Our processes are only loosely defined, which makes it harder for new people to understand who makes decisions and join in leadership position. So we're trying WEPs, an idea taken from the open-source ecosystem, to formalize our decision-making. If you're interested, take a look at the `introduction blog post </blog/introducing-weps/>`__, which goes into more depth.
```

Reviewer 4: missing "s" in positions. Otherwise :+1: to the change.

> Finally, we're changing policy for how we change policies, by introducing `Write the Docs Enhancement Proposals </blog/introducing-weps/>`__. The way we run the community has grown organically with the community itself, from seven whole years ago when it was just one conference . Our processes are only loosely defined - but that makes it harder for new people to understand the community and join the leadership. So we're trying WEPs, an idea taken from the open-source ecosystem. If you're interested, take a look at the `blog post </blog/introducing-weps/>`__, which explains it all much better.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, we're changing the policy for how we change policies, by introducing `Write the Docs Enhancement Proposals </blog/introducing-weps/>`__ (WEPS). The way we run the community has grown organically with the community itself, from seven whole years ago when it was just one conference . Our processes are only loosely defined - but that makes it harder for new people to understand the community and join the leadership. So we're trying WEPs, an idea taken from the open-source ecosystem. If you're interested, take a look at the `blog post </blog/introducing-weps/>`__, which explains it all much better.
```

Onto this month's articles!

--------------------------------------

> The strengths of different backgrounds

Reviewer 4: <3

* Culinary arts and restaurants: experience with managing stress, coping in sink-or-swim situations, and working with diverse groups of people
* Customer support and tech support: lots of practice at explaining things; appreciation for the value of writing things down
* Education: well prepared to develop training curriculum and knowledge base content
* History, philosophy, religion, and ethics: strong reading, writing, and arguing skills, and especially the ability to write *quickly*
* Library and information science: familiar with information architecture, tools, and technologies
* Sociology and anthropology: keen human-centric insight and user-focused perspective
* Technical writing certification or degree: allowed to grow into the role; driven to constantly improve

We could fill an entire newsletter describing the paths people took to their roles in documentation. But no matter how our documentarians all found their way here, we're glad they did ❤️

---------------------------------------------------
Docs and design: When docs can't fix all the things
---------------------------------------------------

> Much as we'd like to wish otherwise, we don't usually document perfectly usable software. (Is there such a thing?) And sometimes, they have major usability problems. A plaintive question about how to document a poorly designed product generated a range of responses - from how to provide feedback about the design and try to improve it, to how to hide or make less prominent less usable portions of the product.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Much as we'd like to wish otherwise, we don't usually document perfectly usable software. (Is there such a thing?) And sometimes, the software we're documenting has major usability problems. A plaintive question about how to document a poorly designed product generated a range of responses - from how to provide feedback about the design and try to improve it, to how to hide or make less prominent less usable portions of the product.
```

Reviewer 4: +1

> Much as we'd like to wish otherwise, we don't usually document perfectly usable software. (Is there such a thing?) And sometimes, they have major usability problems. A plaintive question about how to document a poorly designed product generated a range of responses - from how to provide feedback about the design and try to improve it, to how to hide or make less prominent less usable portions of the product.

Reviewer 4: Not super keen on "like to wish". 

```suggestion
Much as we'd like to think otherwise, we don't usually document perfectly usable software. (Is there such a thing?) And sometimes, they have major usability problems. A plaintive question about how to document a poorly designed product generated a range of responses - from how to provide feedback about the design and try to improve it, to how to hide or make less prominent less usable portions of the product.
```

So if you've got features that "don't make sense" or don't seem to fit into the rest of the product you're tasked with documenting, try these tips from our always-creative community:

- See whether you can persuade the product dev team to remove not-very-sensible features, or features that seem to have been included by mistake.
- Create an "Advanced Features" section of the docs and bury information about the features there.

> - Keep the docs about the problematic thing short, but also provide brief warnings about any consequences of trying to use a feature - for example, if works poorly or has unexpected consequences.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Keep the docs about the problematic thing short, but also provide brief warnings about any consequences of trying to use a feature - for example, it works poorly or has unexpected consequences.
```

> - Include a recommendation to contact Support before using the problem features (a bit passive-aggressive, but participants agreed that desperate times can call for desperate measures).

Reviewer 4: You might wanna check in with support before doing this!!!

You can help by making the feedback about behaviour and its outcomes, not the person or how you feel about them. A useful acronym here is BIO: say what Behavior you’re observing (with specific examples), the Impact it has, and give Options for doing it differently. On the impact: for example, if a writer isn't being concise enough, show how the longwindedness affects the reader. The extra information doesn't help the user achieve their goals, and actually gets in the way. 

And make sure you're also giving positive feedback when your report does things well! It can be tough when the only feedback you hear from your manager is negative.

Finally, if you're concerned about your report taking the feedback badly, it could be worth keeping documentation. If you're getting complaints about your report from colleagues, get those in writing, and write notes of your meetings with them too.

---------------------------------------------

> "You"-sing the second person in documentation

Author: I'm so sorry

Reviewer 2: I love it though!

Reviewer 4: :crying_cat_face:

.. raw:: html

    <hr>
    <table width="100%" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" style="width:100%; max-width: 600px;">
      <tbody>
        <tr>
          <td width="75%">
              <p>
              "Following our discussion on tools in the last newsletter: JetBrains is a cutting-edge software vendor specializing in the creation of intelligent development tools, and also sponsored this year's Write The Docs Prague. They're running a survey on which help authoring tools and markup languages are popular among technical writers: <a class="reference external" href="https://surveys.jetbrains.com/s3/authoring-tools-nl">surveys.jetbrains.com/s3/authoring-tools-nl</a>. Please take a moment to share your experience, to help JetBrains get a bird’s eye view of the documentation developer ecosystem."
              </p>
          </td>
          <td width="25%">
            <a href="https://surveys.jetbrains.com/s3/authoring-tools-nl">
              <img alt="JetBrains" src="/_static/img/sponsors/jetbrains.png">
            </a>
          </td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>
    <hr>

> 

Reviewer 3: We should put a callout here linking to how to sponsor. 

```suggestion

*Have something to say to our community?, take a look at our* `sponsorship prospectus </newsletter/sponsorship/>`__.
```
